---
layout: page
title: Syllabus
group: Syllabus
---

{% include basic-course-info.html %}

## Basic Course Information

This course provides an introduction to fundamental concepts in the design and implementation of computer communication networks, their protocols, and applications. Topics to be covered include: layered network architecture, physical layer and data link protocols, network and transport protocols, unicast and multicast routing protocols, and applications. Examples will be drawn from the Internet TCP/IP protocol suite. The course also includes two programming projects, in which students gain hand-on experience with basic network programming and development of simple network applications.

## Course Objectives

- Master socket programming and transport layer services

- Master web programming concepts

- Master modern source code management and collaboration tools

- Be familiar with network architecture and OSI network model

- Be familiar with internetworking, routing, and congestion control

- Be familiar with link layer access control concepts

- Be familiar with applied cryptography and other network security concepts

- Be exposed to wireless and mobile networking, multimedia networking, and network management

## Required Textbook

- "Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach (5/6/7th Edition)" by James F. Kurose and Keith W. Ross.

In addition to the textbook, students expected to do their own research online, using Wikipedia, RFCs, and other technical documentation.  This especially applies to some of the homework problems.

## Prerequisites

If you do not meet the prerequisites, you will be dropped from the course during the first week.
Swap out of the course now to avoid late fees.

COP-4338 Programming III

- Basic understanding of algorithms, computer architecture, and operating systems.
- Good background in Python programming
- Knowledge of basic multithreading programming in Python

## Course Workload and Grading Information

<div class="col-xs-12 col-sm-4 pull-right figure">
  <table class="table table-striped table-hover table-bordered">
    <tr>
      <td>Homeworks</td>
      <td>16%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Programming Projects</td>
      <td>40% (8%/16%/16%)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Midterm exam</td>
      <td>22%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Final exam</td>
      <td>22%</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</div>

- Weekly homeworks
- Midterm Exam
- Final Exam
- Three programming projects

<div class="row">
</div>

## Contacting the Course Staff (Email and Office Hours) and Class Participation

You are all encouraged to visit us during office hours or email us. Class participation is very welcomed and will be rewarded.  Do not hesitate to ask questions in the class, in most, if not all cases, the entire class will benefit from the answers received (what you may think as a silly or naïve question may in fact be a genuine question that also other students in the class may have).  When you email us make sure you include **[CS118]** in your email's subject line in order for the email to receive the proper attention.  Any project-related questions should be forwarded to the course TA.  Questions about graded homeworks should be first directed to the class grader.  If you are not completely satisfied with the grader's response then you can contact the TA. If your problem is still not resolved then you can contact the course instructor.

## Course Policies **(Read This Carefully)** 

Homework assignment must be done by **each student individually**
{: class="bs-callout bs-callout-info" }

The first programming project is individual.
{: class="bs-callout bs-callout-warning" }

Two other programming projects should be done in groups of 2-3 students.
{: class="bs-callout bs-callout-warning" }

No late homework or project submission.
{: class="bs-callout bs-callout-danger" }

No make-up midterm or final examinations.
{: class="bs-callout bs-callout-danger" }

Adherence to the University's Code of Ethics will be strictly monitored and enforced.  This will be applicable to homeworks, projects and examinations.  By registering for this course the student is assumed to automatically abide by the Code of Ethics which applies to any work generated by the student, including homeworks, examinations, project assignments.  Academic integrity violations, such as plagiarism, cheating on an exam etc., will result in a series of actions and penalties including the possibility of the student failing the class or being expelled from the university.  Note that all parties involved in cases of academic integrity violations are disciplined.  Therefore, students should take this matter seriously and are expected to fully cooperate and support the atmosphere of trust and individual achievement.  If you need assistance with class-related issues it is better if you contact the course's staff.  Students are encouraged to discuss among themselves issues related to the course material in order to deepen their understanding, or to share information regarding the use of programming tools, development environments, or debugging techniques.
{: class="bs-callout bs-callout-warning" }
